# Synthetical-Control
Evaluation of CFEM in the city of Parauapebas (PA) through synthetic control


The work is part of the research project that evaluates the impact of mining in the southeast of Pará (BR). Synthetic control is part of the statistic
multivariate, and has the objective of evaluating the impact of an intervention/event/policy that suffers in a determined trajectory (over time) according to a variable.

Synthetic control commands were run through STATA. The databases are available inside the obtained folder.

The Financial Compensation for Mineral Exploitation (CFEM) is a counterweight to the economic exploitation of mineral resources in the territories. Introducing CFEM in Amazon has brought new issues surrounding the dynamics of the development expected for the region, such as the progress of social and economic indicators of the residents. This research's objective was to evaluate the impact of the royalties of mining in Parauapebas, southeast of Pará State. The study applied the synthetic control method, which has as a feature establishing a counterfactual of the city without intervention (without the CFEM compensation). It does the latter by pondering the data of cities that have not suffered equal impact whether for not performing the same activity; or for it being trifling as the percentage of GDP. The research has generated ten synthetic indicators for the city (GDP; per capita GDP; Employment; Government investment; Number of residents; Homicide rate; Educational and cultural expenditures; Percentage of water supply assistance; Percentage of sanitary sewage assistance; Percentage of waste collection). We found that the city of Parauapebas is in a better position for development due to: the application of royalties from mining, a higher rate of socioenvironmental welfare of the city population compared to the one that we would verify in a city without the mining activity (expressed by non-mining cities of Pará, which act as a proxy). Secondly, Parauapebas has transformed into a center attractive to migration, with a higher population growth rate, high employment generation, government investment compared to other cities, expenditure on education, and the high disposition of social services for the inhabitants. Thus, the application of resources from mining in Parauapebas considers the demands presented by the territory and provides the anticipation that, in the case of mining end, would not reverse the city's development.
